# Why Do Start-ups Have To Choose a Customer?  
All businesses ultimately need to be paid. A customer is any person, group, or organization who will pay a business money for any of its goods or services. For this reason, as customers are the source of a start-up’s revenue, many put great weight on whom a start-up is likely to service. Indeed, it is the first question many investors ask.
Yet for any start-up whose underlying idea has the potential to create mean- ingful consumer value, the question most often is not whether any potential cus- tomers exist, but which customer to choose. At the earliest stages of a venture, entrepreneurs do not have the resources to serve all potential customers with equal attention and care. But even if resources were not an issue, as we will dis- cuss, the customers an entrepreneur chooses to focus on initially are not likely to be the customers that end up at the core of the entrepreneur’s business.
History is filled with examples of successful ventures that started out with very different customers than those for which the ventures were ultimately known. Facebook famously started serving the college student market before

# Inherent Customer Value  
Entrepreneurs normally want to find the customers who value their prod- ucts the most. Economists represent overall customer value in a concept called “willingness to pay.” Customers with the highest willingness to pay assign the highest value to these products relative to others. But what drives this value?
As an example, ask yourself what you are willing to pay for a cool, refresh- ing can of soda. Often, this price depends on context—is it hot or cold outside?— and on other available options—are juice or iced tea also offered? Depending on the circumstances, your possible alternative prices might range from nothing (you don’t like soda) to very high prices like $8 (you are in a hotel at 3 a.m. after a long flight and could use a caffeine hit to get those PowerPoint slides finished!). Economists say your willingness to pay for a soda will be the price that just leaves you indifferent between having a soda or not.
For a venture, therefore, customers’ willingness to pay represents potential: it is the maximum amount of value that can be generated by supplying custom- ers with the product. Of course, willingness to pay depends not only on the prod- uct delivered, but also on the customer being targeted (see Mini Case: What’s the Value of a Miracle?). In practice, customers rarely must pay a price equal to their willingness to pay due to the natural dispersion of customer preferences and constraints. For example, companies like Uber and Lyft know that even if you are hesitant to take a rideshare to the party at current surge prices, chances are there are many others who are not hesitant and will pay the price without blinking. Moreover, the price ultimately charged also reflects several market factors, including the degree of competition and the number of substitutes. Your indifference to pay for a rideshare at that point may also reflect the ease of public transportation in your neighborhood, or even your interest in going to the party at all.
While the willingness to pay defines the potential value for a given customer, it is also important to consider the costs of delivering that value. For instance, most travelers would be willing to pay more to fly in a private jet rather than a commercial airline. However, that does not mean using private jets creates the most value for most people. While a private jet has higher inherent value to a customer, the costs of supplying it are also higher. For most individuals, even if they paid their willingness-to-pay price for a private jet, it would not cover the costs of supplying the trip. Put another way, there is no price a private jet ser- vice could charge to viably serve these customers; it wouldn’t take many trips for the service to be bankrupt. As a result, most travelers, despite preferring travel on a private jet, remain commercial airline customers.



As we see in this example, the value created from sup- plying a particular customer is not their willingness to pay, but rather the difference b etween t heir w illingness t o p ay and the costs of supplying the customer (see Deep Dive: The Numbers behind Willingness to Pay). By contrast, the value captured by the venture, and the venture’s ability to derive profit from the operation, is the difference b etween the price the customer pays and the costs of supplying them. Ideally, and indeed in most cases, price should be set between a customer segment’s willingness to pay and the costs to supply them.
However, entrepreneurs face a challenge in that true will- ingness to pay and cost are rarely known, at least with any precision. In contrast to established products or services, there is considerable uncertainty about how much particu- lar customers will value a venture’s novel offering, and how much it will cost to deliver that value reliably as the ven- ture scales. And there are many cautionary tales, includ- ing Segway (which failed to see that people would not want to stand out from the crowd), Webvan (which was unable to push costs down to support cheap groceries), and Pets.com (which overestimated willingness to pay for alternative pet food and underestimated the difficulty of de livering large items).
Further, start-ups must also factor in the resources and time required to educate and acquire new customers. Customer acquisition costs can include marketing campaigns and initial discounts to entice customers to learn about new and novel products. While these costs vary substantially across customer segments, the next section describes a path of product adoption that entrepreneurs can use to guide the adoption process.



